# Doing digital things in academia: a DH autobiography
## B.A. @ Mary Washington
As I expect is the case with most people involved with “digital humanities” in some way – my introduction to the field was less “I want to do digital humanities,” and more “oh wow, turns out I’ve been doing digital humanities.” For me, this point came during my second semester of undergraduate education at the University of Mary Washington, at which point my partner at the time mentioned that my interests in both English and Political Science converged with his work in “digital studies” quite a lot. My focus on online political media and hypertext fiction, had brought me into the orbit of something I would soon fall deeply in love with. While that relationship ended soon thereafter, as a result of unrelated events, my interest in what was at UMW called “digital studies” continued on. 

### Digital studies B.A. minor
This point marks my entry into what I now know to be “digital humanities”; the beginning of my first phase of entanglement with this in-between space of a discipline. I picked up the [minor](https://cas.umw.edu/dgst/about/) offered in “digital studies” the next semester and took as many classes within it as I could fit into my schedule: Intro to Digital Studies ([DGST101](https://cas.umw.edu/dgst/curriculum/dgst-101/)), Applied Digital Studies ([DGST395](https://cas.umw.edu/dgst/curriculum/dgst-395/)), Creative Coding ([DGST301A](https://zachwhalen.github.io/creativecoding/)), and Reading Literature with Computers ([ENGL415B](https://cas.umw.edu/cds/2019/10/12/engl-451b-reading-literature-with-computers/)). In these classes I learned about the background and development of digital humanities, as well as given an introduction to many of the methods commonly found in the discipline. Quickly, I was drafted onto a research project of Dr. Zach Whalen’s as an assistant along with two colleagues. We focused on reading and thematically coding computer generated texts which were created as a part of the annual National Novel Generation Month open GitHub initiative. We developed this work into a [public catalogue](https://nngm.botstudies.org/) and conference paper, which we received a grant from the school to present at the Spring 2020 Virginia Humanities Conference. Unfortunately, the event was canceled due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, however my interest soldiered on. I wrote my capstone minor thesis about a computational comparison of postmodern “encyclopedic” novels and online hypertext fiction.

## M.A. @ Univeristy of Virginia
My application to the University of Virginia’s Media Studies program should have raised red flags for the admissions committee. “This one’s going to do digital humanities” it should have read. I applied to my now-program with every intention to study internet texts using the appropriate new methods which I had used in my undergraduate training: computational text analysis, web scraping, neural nets, web archives, etc. So, when I was accepted, that is what I did. Despite the limited course offerings of the brand-new program, I molded almost every class to my own interests using digital tools to study digital media.

### Coursework
When I was made aware of the Digital Humanities graduate certificate at the beginning of my second semester, I knew I had to participate in it. Immediately I signed up, and thus began the second phase of my DH journey. In the time since I have taken  Exploratory Text Analytics (DS5001) and Computational Media (MDST7803), and I am currently enrolled in Content Analysis (MDST7559) and Intro to Digital Humanities (DH8991). Throughout these classes I have, and am currently, learning methodological tools with which to better realize my research goals. In particular I value the programming skills I am learning with which I will be able to build my own tools for data collection and analysis. 

### Reseach assistantship
As a research assistant, too, I have contributed my skills with digital humanities tools. With Kevin Driscoll I have worked on the BYTE computer enthusiast magazine archiving and mapping project. In this role I have become comfortable using large spreadsheets, piloting data visualization tools, and navigating large archives of digitized text which would be otherwise untenable. With Andrea Press, as well, I have worked on project design: planning data collection for social media and video hosting sites.

### Independent research
My independent interest and research also heavily makes use of digital humanities methods, which I have worked to improve my command over through professional development. Through the “Python for Humanists” workshop hosted by U.Va. Research Computing, as well as through memberships to various inter-institution research groups such as the Discord Academic Research Community and Sociologists of Digital Things, I have continued my learning outside of class hours. My independent research uses skills I have gained in class, as an RA, and through these research groups has helped guide my inquiry into ”internet culture.” With two colleagues at U.Va., Parker Bach (now at UNC Chapel Hill) and Harry Hudome, I have contributed to two research articles currently under review studying archives of Yahoo! Answers (Y!A) forum posts. One uses thematic coding to identify different intent typologies of Y!A participation, and the other is a meta-discussion of internet archiving access and best-practice. We presented this research at the University of Southern California Cinematic Arts department’s annual First Forum research conference in the fall. 

### Thesis development
My M.A. thesis, however, is my larger project in-development. Tying the threads of my different political, cultural, and internet media interests together, it is tentatively titled “Live and leftist: Hasan Piker, Twitch, and the livestreaming left.” In this project I am using a Python tool which I developed to scrape, parse, and visualize hundreds of thousands of messages from synchronous live chats accompanying livestreams. It relies heavily on the basics of text analytics, utilizing the “ordered hierarchy of content objects” framework to parse messages and time chunking to display frequency. I am currently developing a second option within it which will compare terms’ significance within chunks of time via TF/IDF, so that it might provide further insights into livestream audience reception. This application gives an overhead view of audience sentiment and participation in relation to on-stream discussion and events, evidencing the interactive relationship between audiences and livestreamers. My goal for this project, beyond the completion of my degree, is to polish and make public this tool I created so that it might encourage further livestream study.

## The future...
Looking to the future, this fall I will be continuing my education at either the University of Wisconsin–Madison’s Communication Arts or the University of California–Irvine’s Visual Studies PhD programs.  A major component of my rationale for choosing these programs is that they offer the flexibility methodologically to support digital humanities approaches to my work, and offer professional development and working groups to continue my training in them. I am excited to be continuing my relationship with the field, and look forward to beginning my next phase in it.
